---
title: "EclipseCon Europe - meet us there"
date: 2019-10-21T15:54:12+03:00
description: ""
categories: []
keywords: []
slug: ""
aliases: []
toc: false
draft: false
event_date: 21st - 24th October 2019
location: Ludwigsburg, Germany
#header_wrapper_class: ""
#seo_title: ""
#headline: ""
#subtitle: ""
#tagline: ""
#links: ["https://wiki.eclipse.org/ECE2019_Automotive","https://www.eclipsecon.org/europe2019/sessions/open-collaboration-safer-autonomous-mobility-future-directors-pick"]
---

**Date:** 21st - 24th October 2019

**Location:** Ludwigsburg, Germany

Work in the field of automated driving and autonomous mobility requires many multi-faceted processes incorporating a variety of software tools. In particular, any software that will be used in a vehicle must undergo rigorous testing, increasingly including vehicle and traffic simulation, as part of the verification and validation (V&V) strategy.

<!-- more -->

As of yet, there is no single tool to cover all simulation needs from the detailed level of the vehicle to the transportation system as a whole. However, coupling different simulators is also not an easy task as there is no standard for interoperability between various simulation tools in development. Moreover, analyzing the system-under-test with tools provided by commercial simulation software vendors often leads to a lock-in effect, where use of one tool makes use of another prohibitively expensive. This costs the automotive industry more time and money than should be necessary.

<!-- more -->

The OpenADx Eclipse Working Group, the openMobility Eclipse Working Group and the openGENESIS Eclipse Working Group are pursuing an industry approach to an open collaborate in non-competitive areas like methods and indispensable toolchains for developing Autonomous Driving solutions, microscopic traffic simulation or AI validation. The goal is to set up toolchains with less effort to accelerate the development of Autonomous Driving solutions. All interested parties are invited to join and support all of us in getting the right tools for Autonomous Driving development.

<!-- more -->

[Community Day - Automotive@Eclipse](https://wiki.eclipse.org/ECE2019_Automotive)

<!-- more -->

[Session: Open Collaboration for safer Autonomous Mobility of the Future](https://www.eclipsecon.org/europe2019/sessions/open-collaboration-safer-autonomous-mobility-future-directors-pick)